# Contemporary Issues In Data
For this assignment, I found two articles that discuss the future of relational databases and point out the different directions that relational databases might go.  

## Article 1
In Medium's [Relational Database Systems Are Becomin A Problem – But What To Do About It?](https://medium.com/@jankammerath/relational-database-systems-are-becoming-a-problem-but-what-to-do-about-it-eb868d060601), Jan Kammerath talks about how relational databases such as SQL, Oracle, and Postgres are becoming more antiquated as computing, storage, data centers, and applications have changed. Relational databases used to be popular in the 80's, but now that there are less people who know how to maintain these databases, they are actually becoming a liability. Kammerath names such examples such as airline systems failures in 2000, 2016, and 2022, a botched computer upgrade for TSB Bank, and the lack of software for the employment agency. 

The problem is that because the entire world used to run on relational databases, it's become more difficult to use these systems as the need for scalability grows. Kammerath says the solution is to use Purpose built systems–implementing a specific software because it is a better approach for a specific scenario versus using a one-size-fits all approach. Specially, he asserts that a non-relational blockchain-based database system like Amazon QlDB is better fit for crytocurrency transactions than a regular relational database. Overall, centralized relational databases are often not good enough to solve problems in the modern world because as companies need to evolve in scale, we need to use systems that better adopt to our needs today. 


## Article 2
In Forbes's [Why Our Databases Are Changing ](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adrianbridgwater/2023/07/06/why-our-databases-are-changing/?sh=4bd611504ec2), Adrian Bridgewater makes a similar claim that relational databases such as SQL are old and outdated but believes  that technology in the future will still follow SQL compliance and conventions from traditional relational databases. He notes that there is a shift happening in the way we are managing our data. Many factors have caused this shift, such as the end of cheap capital to maintain our data and build applications, the need to handle "concurrent global transactions and potentially transactions written to different machines", and greater calls for efficiency and economies of scale. 

Bridgewater adds that the need for automation has greated contributed to this push for change. Automation would help with the management of the database and allow people to focus on customer service and market share. The author does not touch on much the debate between relational and non-relational databases, but I believe that the reason he doesn't think relational databases will go away anythime soon is because Bridgewater thinks that relational databases are too engrained in the way everything runs for people to get rid of it. It's a "legacy" technology that has been preached and taught for generations, so it's better to expand the efficieny and power of its technology. 